Author:  X8X_XZDX

Proposal to Angle Steam Towards Steam Deck Development + Users w/ Benefits to Whole Steam Userbase

Reasons -- Clarity + Communication, to all users, Increased End User Value, Steam Deck Monetization Routes, Reintegration of Modding into Steam Culture

Interface -- Steam + ModHub


| Thesis |


There are a few elements when thinking about the future of Valve.

1 Hardware Development
    1a. Developing the Steam Deck
        1aa. Hardware Research
        1ab. Hardware Development
        1ac. Hardware Testing
        1ad. Hardware Production
        1ae. Stock Maintenance
        1af. Initial Sale Flyoff
        1ag. Maintained Stock (Chip Shortage Risk)
    1b. Hardware Changes for VR
        1ba. Valve Index Updates
        1bb. Steam Deck + Valve Index compatibility Potential / Other VR Headsets
    1c. Hardware Investments, Company AND User End
        1ca. Company invests in Hardware Expandability and Modding
        1cb. Users Mod + Dev on Hardware Released
            1cba. Users post to User Mod Forum, a Modhub
            1cbb. Modhub is Valve Github, can have its own client
                1cbba. Greenlight with key
            1cbc. Users use Modhub instead of Workshop to POST content
            1cbd. END-USERS download thru a trimmed down modhub
            1cbe. Feedback can be applied as fast as the file was retrieved thru modhub

2 Software Availability
    2a. Modhub enabled accounts get source 1 sdk suite
        2aa. Gmod, TF2, CSS, CSGO files packed with hammer + modhub
        2ab. Portal?  IDK
    2b. Other software available on steam good for use on steam deck, such as OBS, blender, a photo or video editor, RPG Maker 2003, etc
    2c. Dockability + Portability make for good dev at home, on the go, on top of basic hardware for testing
        2ca.  Add in potential VR + "virtual" displays, good PC in a pinch for streamers at vidcon etc to grab at best buy or something (Apple store, idk)
    2d. Mods anywhere any time

3 Streaming + Social Media
    2a. Valve notorious for not communicating
        2aa. Make communication with valve normal thru modhub
        2ab.  Allow employees at Valve with literally any reason to stream on the broadcast network to do so, especially if a coworker is harrassing them at work
            2aba. End-User streamers MUST be allowed multistream if no rev deal are ever made
        2ac. Import new social media to steam, replacing discussions
            2aca. Import literally anything, mastodon at this pont
            2acb. Make communication basically effortless.  MSN is the direct chat, where the social media should be basically twitter.

4 Other
    4a.  Stop looking like Newgrounds.com my god.

Following that, it is KEY for Valve to be careful in its funding with future hardware updates, hardware changes making supply reups take time, and the ability to restock outlier areas for distribution of that hardware, etc.
